Add k8ssandra support (#694)
wireapp/wire-server-deploy: offline/k8ssandra_setup.md

# Setting up K8ssandra
Reference - https://docs.k8ssandra.io/install/local/single-cluster-helm/

K8ssandra will need the following components to be installed in the cluster - 
- dynamic persistent volume provisioning (for e.g with OpenEBS)
- cert-manager
- minio (for backup and restore)
- K8ssandra-operator
- Configure minio bucket for backups

## [1] Dynamic Persistent Volume Provisioning
If you already have a dynamic persistent volume provisioning setup, you can skip this step. If not, we will be using OpenEBS for dynamic persistent volume provisioning.

Reference docs - https://openebs.io/docs/user-guides/local-storage-user-guide/local-pv-hostpath/hostpath-installation

Deploy OpenEBS -

```
d helm install openebs charts/openebs --namespace openebs --create-namespace
```

> The above helm chart will be readily available in the offline artifact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above helm chart is available in the offline artifact.
```

After successful deployment of OpenEBS, you will see these storage classes:
```
d kubectl get sc
NAME               PROVISIONER                    RECLAIMPOLICY   VOLUMEBINDINGMODE      ALLOWVOLUMEEXPANSION   AGE
openebs-device     openebs.io/local               Delete          WaitForFirstConsumer   false                  5d20h
openebs-hostpath   openebs.io/local               Delete          WaitForFirstConsumer   false                  5d20h
```

## [2] Install cert-manager

> cert-manager is a must requirement for k8ssandra - https://docs.k8ssandra.io/install/local/single-cluster-helm/#deploy-cert-manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cert-manager is a must requirement for k8ssandra - see https://docs.k8ssandra.io/install/local/single-cluster-helm/#deploy-cert-manager for why.
```

To install the cert-manager, follow the steps mentioned in `Use letsencrypt generated certificates` section in [offline/docs_ubuntu_22.04.md](./docs_ubuntu_22.04.md)

## [3] Install Minio

> Minio and minio-external chart should have been already installed, if you are following the docs_ubuntu_22.04.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minio and minio-external chart should have been already installed, if you are following docs_ubuntu_22.04.md
```

## [4] Deploy K8ssandra Operator
```
cp ./values/k8ssandra-operator/prod-values.example.yaml ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml

d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator --values ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml -n database --create-namespace
```

## [5] Configure Minio Bucket for Backups

> Create a K8s secret to access Minio by applying `minio-secret.yaml` below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a K8s secret for k8ssandra to access with Minio by applying `minio-secret.yaml` below.
```

> Important: Use `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key` from ansible/inventory/offline/group_vars/all/secrets.yaml file, they will be named `minio_access_key` and `minio_secret_key`.

Reviewer: I don't quite follow here.

Author: Updated the section.

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: medusa-bucket-key
 namespace: database
type: Opaque
stringData:
 credentials: |-
   [default]
   aws_access_key_id = UIWEGQZ53qVlLuQ2mkM3 #update this
   aws_secret_access_key = dpZqqiR0Bwz6Kc6J8ruPfTC1VqIPI4EM0Id6TLWG83 #update this
```

Apply the secret:

```d kubectl apply -f minio-secret.yaml```

Now, put this medusa config directly below the `spec:` section in `charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster/templates/k8ssandra-cluster.yaml`:
```
medusa:
  storageProperties:
    storageProvider: s3_compatible
    region: eu-west-1
    bucketName: k8ssandra-backups
    host: minio-external
    port: 9000
    prefix: dc1
    storageSecretRef:
      name: medusa-bucket-key
    secure: false
    maxBackupAge: 7
```

## Install K8ssandra Test Cluster

> Create a copy of variable file -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a copy of the provided values file -
```

```
cp ./values/ingress-nginx-controller/prod-values.example.yaml ./values/ingress-nginx-controller/values.yaml
d helm install ingress-nginx-controller ./charts/ingress-nginx-controller --values ./values/ingress-nginx-controller/values.yaml
```
Now check where ingress-nginx-controller pod is running and install cert-manager on a different node.

```
d kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=ingress-nginx -o=custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,NODE:.spec.nodeName
```
For e.g. .. if it is `kubenode1`, taint the node
```
d kubectl cordon kubenode1
```
Now, download cert manager, and place it in the appropriate location:
```
wget https://charts.jetstack.io/charts/cert-manager-v1.13.2.tgz
tar -C ./charts -xvzf cert-manager-v1.13.2.tgz
```

Install `cert-manager` into a new namespace `cert-manager-ns`.
```
d kubectl create namespace cert-manager-ns
d helm upgrade --install -n cert-manager-ns --set 'installCRDs=true' cert-manager charts/cert-manager
```

Uncordon the node you cordonned earlier:
```
d kubectl uncordon kubenode1

> ```

Author: Cert-manager is a must requirement for k8ssandra here - https://docs.k8ssandra.io/install/local/single-cluster-helm/#deploy-cert-manager

Currently, it is an optional step to use k8ssandra, that's why I put all the step at one place to avoid any confusions.
Once, this is default, plan is to install cert-manager and nginx-ingress-controller at the beginning and than install k8ssandra, to avoid duplication.

> ```

Reviewer 2: I see. I think we should then reference the main `docs_ubuntu_22.04.md` part here rather than adding having this part twice in our docs.
If I follow the WIAB install, and want to deploy K8ssandra as well, I'd jump in here following the link right after installing the `wire-server` chart. This happens before the "Directing Traffic to Wire" section from the main readme, which tells us how to forward traffic to the ingress - even if it's not needed here, I'd argue we should keep the order as it is.
I would also jump back into the main readme after finishing the K8ssandra deployment and encounter errors by following the same ingress instructions again:
```
demo@Ubuntu-2204-jammy-amd64-base:~/wire-server-deploy$ d kubectl create namespace cert-manager-ns
Error from server (AlreadyExists): namespaces "cert-manager-ns" already exists
```

I guess everyone who made it this far is able to figure out that these steps are now redundant, but for the sake of consistency, I'd really rather see a reference to the relevant part in `docs_ubuntu_22.04.md` here, even if it's just a "temporary" change until we integrate K8ssandra into our default deployment.
Also, we don't have to keep track of changes in two places for the `cert-manager` part, if they come up.

Other opinions? @julialongtin perhaps?

> ```

Author: Okay this makes sense :) 
I have updated the docs to reference to existing docs for installing cert-manager.

## [3] Install Minio
Minio and minio-external chart should have been already installed, if you are following the docs_ubuntu_22.04.md

## [4] Deploy K8ssandra Operator
```
d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator -n database --create-namespace
```

## [5] Configure Minio Bucket for Backups

> Create a secret to access Minio, make a new file `minio-secret.yaml`, and put into it -
> 
> Get the aws_access_key_id and aws_secret_access_key from ansible/inventory/offline/group_vars/all/secrets.yaml file, they will be under minio_access_key and minio_secret_key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a K8s secret to access Minio by applying `minio-secret.yaml` below.

Important: Use `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key` from ansible/inventory/offline/group_vars/all/secrets.yaml file, they will be named `minio_access_key` and `minio_secret_key`.
```

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
 name: medusa-bucket-key
 namespace: database
type: Opaque
stringData:
 credentials: |-
   [default]
   aws_access_key_id = UIWEGQZ53qVlLuQ2mkM3 #update this
   aws_secret_access_key = dpZqqiR0Bwz6Kc6J8ruPfTC1VqIPI4EM0Id6TLWG83 #update this
```

> and apply this -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apply the secret:
```

```d kubectl apply -f minio-secret.yaml```

> Now, put this medusa config under spec section in ```charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster/templates/k8ssandra-cluster.yaml``` file -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, put this medusa config directly below the `spec:` section in ```charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster/templates/k8ssandra-cluster.yaml```:
```

```

> medusa:
>     storageProperties:
>       storageProvider: s3_compatible
>       region: eu-west-1
>       bucketName: k8ssandra-backups
>       host: minio-external
>       port: 9000
>       prefix: dc1
>       storageSecretRef:
>         name: medusa-bucket-key
>       secure: false
>       maxBackupAge: 7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
medusa:
  storageProperties:
    storageProvider: s3_compatible
    region: eu-west-1
    bucketName: k8ssandra-backups
    host: minio-external
    port: 9000
    prefix: dc1
    storageSecretRef:
      name: medusa-bucket-key
    secure: false
    maxBackupAge: 7
```

```

## Install K8ssandra Test Cluster
In ```charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster/templates/k8ssandra-cluster.yaml``` update the following variables - 

Set `size` to 1

> Set `storageClassName` to "openebs-hostpath"

Reviewer 2: Can this not be updated in `charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster/values.yaml`?

Author: yep, made the changes upstream to create a new variable for that - https://github.com/wireapp/wire-server/pull/4011

Author: fixed

Now, deploy it -

```
d helm upgrade --install k8ssandra-test-cluster charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster --namespace database
```

> After successful deployment, change the size to 3 and than upgrade the deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After successful deployment, change the size to 3 and upgrade the deployment.
```

Note: Deploying with size: 3 directly will result in some hostname resolution issues.
```
d helm upgrade --install k8ssandra-test-cluster charts/k8ssandra-test-cluster --namespace database
```

## Enable Backups
Reference - https://docs.k8ssandra.io/tasks/backup-restore/

> To enable Medusa backup schedule and old backups purging schedule, create a file `k8ssandra-backup.yaml` -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Medusa backup schedule and purging schedule for old backups, create a file `k8ssandra-backup.yaml`:
```

d helm install ingress-nginx-controller ./charts/ingress-nginx-controller --values ./values/ingress-nginx-controller/values.yaml
```
Now check where ingress-nginx-controller pod is running and install cert-manager on a different node.

```
d kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=ingress-nginx -o=custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,NODE:.spec.nodeName
```
For e.g. .. if it is `kubenode1`, taint the node
```
d kubectl cordon kubenode1
```
Now, download cert manager, and place it in the appropriate location:
```
wget https://charts.jetstack.io/charts/cert-manager-v1.13.2.tgz
tar -C ./charts -xvzf cert-manager-v1.13.2.tgz
```

Install `cert-manager` into a new namespace `cert-manager-ns`.
```
d kubectl create namespace cert-manager-ns
d helm upgrade --install -n cert-manager-ns --set 'installCRDs=true' cert-manager charts/cert-manager
```

Uncordon the node you cordonned earlier:
```
d kubectl uncordon kubenode1
```

## [3] Install Minio
Minio and minio-external chart should have been already installed, if you are following the docs_ubuntu_22.04.md

## [4] Deploy K8ssandra Operator
```

> d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator -n database --create-namespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cp ./values/k8ssandra-operator/prod-values.example.yaml ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml

d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator --values ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml -n database --create-namespace
```

> ```
> d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator -n database --create-namespace
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
cp ./values/k8ssandra-operator/prod-values.example.yaml ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml
d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator --values ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml -n database --create-namespace
```
```

> ```
> d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator -n database --create-namespace
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
cp ./values/k8ssandra-operator/prod-values.example.yaml ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml

d helm install k8ssandra-operator charts/k8ssandra-operator --values ./values/k8ssandra-operator/values.yaml -n database --create-namespace
```
```
